![preview](./preview.png)
Sagindyk Urazayev <ctu ku edu>
About_LINK | Bookshelf_LINK | Fortunes_LINK | Home_LINK
:toc: preamble
:toclevels: 4
:toc-title: Table of Adventures â›µ
:nofooter:
:experimental:
= Twin Peaks as a Cult Film ðŸŒ²ðŸŒ²

April 22nd, 2020

[abstract]
.Abstract


Twin Peaks was one of the biggest impacts TV industry has ever
experienced thanks to its rebellious nature against the traditional set
values of mainstream media. In the realm of "bad movies" and "trash
aesthetics", this behavior is often considered a cult film. This paper
will research how David Lynch and Mark Frost changed the film industry
with their infamous TV series.

== Introduction

_Twin Peaks_ premiered on April 8, 1990 with 34.6 million
footnote:[TV-aholic's TV Blog, Ratings Archive - April 2, 1990] viewers
on its first day and it completely changed audience's perception of
television series as a whole. This research will show in what ways and
how the legendary _Twin Peaks_ can be referenced as a cult film.

"Cult audiences seek for films, and seek to enjoy films in ways that
stand away from regular or mainstream reception." footnote:[The Cult
Film Reader, Ernest Mathijs and Xavier Mendik, 2008, pp5-6] Nowadays, we
have a big number of high standard TV shows: _Game of Thrones_,
_Breaking Bad_, _The_ _Walking Dead_, and etc. However, looking back to
1990, there was no other film like _Twin Peaks_. It stood out thanks to
the heavy story-line that David Lynch was introducing to the audience,
to the beautifully composed landscapes and shots, to the level of
creative freedom that was unheard of in network television.
footnote:[Full of secrets: Critical approaches to Twin Peaks, Lavery,
David, 1995]

Roughly 30 years ago, the "high-class" and "high-quality" film-making
was associated with movies and movies only. Audiences were used to
classic film genre masterpieces like: _The Shining_, _The Godfather_,
_Space Odyssey: 2001_, and etc. Television series were treated mostly as
a comedy and means of casual screening. Some of the popular shows that
aired at that time were _Santa Barbara_, _The Cosby Show_, _ALF_, and
_Cheers_. _Twin Peaks_ was simultaneously revolutionary and rebellious
by introducing new standards to the field. This work's behavior is
called a cult movie. David Lynch's and Mark Frost's new creation went
against the established mainstream standards and introduced something
new and truly exciting. After the initial airing of _Twin Peaks_, people
saw what kind of emotional messages and new techniques can be
implemented to develop the area. This is one of the rarest cases where a
cult film by going against the mainstream values, has forced the
mainstream itself to change and take the cult film as an example.
Because _Twin Peaks_' transition from Season 1 to Season 2 is so
seamless and swift, both of the seasons will be discussed as they were a
single complete unit.

After all those years, _Twin Peaks_ has one of the biggest cult
followings in the history. COOP, a national _Twin Peaks_ fan
organization, employed local rallies and computer networking to try to
keep that doomed series on the air. With the recent release of the 3rd
season - _The Return_, the subculture got stronger and bigger with the
revived attention to the series and with the new cult fans joining in.
Interestingly enough, with completely changing the industry standards in
the 90s, the new season was so bizarre, unusual and fascinating that the
season became a separate new generation of cult film by itself. The last
season introduced some outright strange and "absurd" plot development
that still puzzles all the loyal fans.

To evaluate the "cult" value of _Twin Peaks_, I will analyze it from
four major elements: Anatomy, Consumption, and Cultural Status. At the
conclusion of this paper we should be able to prove our claim that "Twin
Peaks" is a cult film. Most of the term definitions are taken from a
wonderful book by Ernest Mathjis and Xavier Mendik â€” "The Cult Film
Reader". All the references to the scenes and events from the series
were taken from my personal screenings. The following research contains
spoilers for _Twin Peaks_, _The Return_.

== Anatomy

Anatomy researches the film itself from a technical point of view:
content, style, format, and generic modes. This is one of factors of
cult films that solely depend on the director and producer of the show.

*_Innovation._* From the very first moments of _Twin Peaks_' intro, the
American audience knew that this is not going to be a regular TV show
they were all used to. The opening credits sequence of _Twin Peaks_ is
accompanied by Angelo Badalamenti. The genius composer behind the _Twin
Peaks_ soundtrack that "still marks the summit of TV soundtracks".
footnote:[Twin Peaks still marks the summit of TV soundtracks, The
Guardian] Even before the actual start of the TV series, audience was
already prepared to new experience only by listening to the opening
credits. The soundtrack might sound sentimental and slow-developing in
the beginning but it serves its purpose to set the mood for the show.
This approach that David Lynch made almost forces all of the members of
the audience to watch the opening credits in full. Where in contrast,
most of the 1980s and 1990s TV shows' (Knight Rider, 1982) opening
credits could be easily skipped because they just became an obstacle
before an actual episode.

*_Badness._* It is almost a convention for cult movies to be "bad" due
to their poor acting, poor cinematic values, poor plot structure or
everything together. However, _Twin Peaks_ was not considered "bad"
under any mainstream criterion. On the contrary, it was revolutionary in
terms of cinematography and its acting crew. Every shot in the series
was carefully composed and thought-out by David Lynch himself. Many do
not know the fact that the lamp flickering technique that is used almost
everywhere actually came from _Twin Peaks_. In the first Season when the
Leland Palmer goes to the morgue to identify the body of his own
daughter, Laura Palmer, the light above the morgue bed flickers. During
the set, the lamp actually broke but instead of replacing it, David
Lynch told the filming crew to leave it as it is. Accidentally or not,
this created one of the most used techniques in the movie industry. The
way David Lynch embraced random and probably bad things on the set is
what made _Twin Peaks_ to some extent "bad" and simultaneously original.
footnote:[Why WERE the Lights Always Flickering in â€˜Twin Peaksâ€™?,
Indiewire]

*_Transgression._* A big factor of a cult film is its ability to blur
the line between what is believed to be "good" and "bad". David Lynch's
first feature-length film _Eraserhead_, 1977, is infamous for its
inventiveness and its ability to question the long-standing traditions
about good and bad through his employment of far-fetched technique that
were outright "bad" in traditional sense, however, they bring some
authentic satisfaction to the viewing experience that makes us to
critically approach the mainstream values. _Twin Peaks_ utilizes some of
the techniques in the BOB sequences. BOB is an inter-dimensional entity
who performs horrific acts towards humanity to "harvest" their pain and
sorrow. David Lynch's mysticism is a key part of the horror side of
_Twin Peaks_. His approach to introduce BOB and other supernatural parts
were so bizarre and uncommon but they became widely accepted and are
still being debated to this day. It really does challenge the
conventional ways of thinking about good and bad values in
cinematography.

*_Genre._* If you ask anyone to name a movie that combines Mystery,
Drama, and Horror, the unanimous answer will always be _Twin Peaks_. It
is a common technique of cult films to mix genres. This is one of
practices that made cult films more approachable (Alien, 1979) and
likable. Some of the most popular movies at the time were always a
combination of different genres that made them unique (Blade Runner,
1987). Twin Peaks is the first one to hit the classic genres (Drama,
Mystery, Horror) and to masterfully combine three of them into one solid
piece.

*_Loose ends._* Media produced in the cult field are infamous for making
people anxious about letting the endings stay loose. Meaning, without a
logical conclusion or a closure (Maniac, 1934). Some of the movies'
endings are so complex that if the director tried to make a reasonable
conclusion, the audience failed at comprehending it (2001: A Space
Odyssey, 1968). Twin Peaks Season Two finale was not an exception and it
left at the very confusing moment, where the viewers were forced to
guess if Dale Cooper at the end of the series is the real agent from FBI
or the doppelganger from the red room. _How's Annie?_ This question has
been answered 26 years later in the _Twin Peaks: The Return_ that is
considered to be the third season of the legendary show. Interestingly
enough, _The Return_ left more loose ends than the original run of the
series. Even in 26 years, David Lynch stayed true to his own "cult"
values.

*_Nostalgia._* Nostalgia is the core feature of any cult film. It is the
ability of a cult film to trigger emotions from the idealized past.
footnote:[Nostalgia: a Neuropsychiatric Understanding, Skidelsky,
Robert, 2009] Arguably, nostalgia is one of the strongest feelings _Twin
Peaks_ successfully triggers in its audience. David Lynch can be
considered one of the classic film directors from the past and he
masterfully utilizes many things from the past in _Twin Peaks_. Firstly,
David Lynch skillfully connects the 90s clothing style with the 50s and
60s clothing style of America. The main characters: Bobby Riggs, Donna
Hayward, and James Hurley, all wear the trending style of their time,
therefore symbolizing the youth of the series. footnote:[Style Guide:
The Looks That Made Twin Peaks, Paste Magazine] On the other hand,
employees at the famous Double R Diner, which was founded by Norma
Jennings in 1969, wear traditional clothes from the 1960s, invoking
nostalgic feelings in the audience members. It has a very strong effect,
because that period of time from 1951 until 1970, is considered to be
the Golden Age of America. footnote:[Keynes: The Return of the Master,
Skidelsky, Robert, 2009] People enjoy remembering the old good days,
subsequently, they enjoy watching _Twin Peaks_ that helps them to
remember them. Surprisingly, _The Return_ does not try to evoke
nostalgic feelings towards 1960s, on the contrary, it is making
references to the interval of time when the original run of _Twin Peaks_
was aired.

*_Gore._* Utilizing gore in films is a sure way to be granted a cult
film status. However, first two seasons of _Twin Peaks_ did not show any
explicit elements of gore. There were moments of domestic violence,
where Leo Johnson was beat his wife, Shelley Johnson, with a sock
stuffed with a bar of soap (Season 1, Episode 1). This action was not
shown, we see only how Leo stuffs the sock, then the screen goes black
accompanied by Shelley's scream, finally we only see the consequences of
Shelley having a bruise in later scenes. Besides that, the original
episodes did not promote gore. Maybe this is one of the reasons why
_Twin Peaks_ is considered a family show. On the other hand, _The
Return_ embraces explicit gore and horror. In no way, the third season
is family-friendly. In the very first episode, the series become pure
horror and the audience is left frightened on what happens next. Figure
shows the supernatural entity that is connected to the spirit of BOB. We
see the "Experiment" materialize in the glass box in New York, violently
killing the couple on the couch by hacking them to death. Figure shows
"The arm", who transformed from a little man in a red suit to an
electric tree that whispers in backward riddles. Finally, Figure shows a
brutal execution that was carried out by Dale Cooper's doppelganger. The
figures below show how over the years, David Lynch embraced gore,
violence, and mysticism into his work.

![Experiment](exper.png)

![The Arm](tree.png)

![Darya](darya.png)

== The consumption of Twin Peaks

The way cult films are received by an audience differs drastically from
the way mainstream films are received. Cult films do not concentrate on
getting box office figures or mass audiences, although there are some
exceptions (Herschell Gordon Lewis). In this current scope, _Twin Peaks_
is a really interesting case to investigate. The show is one of the most
beloved and critically acclaimed TV series ever made. Right before the
initial air of the "Pilot" episode, Media Analyst Paul Schulman said, "I
don't think it has a chance of succeeding. It is not commercial, it is
radically different from what we as viewers are accustomed to seeing,
there's no one in the show to root for." footnote:[High Hopes for Twin
Peaks, Roush, Matt, 1990, USA Today] It was reasonable to think this way
because both _The Colbys_ spin-off and _Dynasty_ failed at the same time
slot that _Twin Peaks_ had, Thursday nights. From its release, everyone
in the time knew what _Twin Peaks_ was. 34.6 rating on the first day
made it ABC's most successful show of the 1990s. David Lynch's and Mark
Frost's show was ranked among the Top 25 Cult Shows and Top 50
Television Programs of All Time by _TV Guide_ footnote:[Twin Peaks,
AMERICAN TELEVISION SHOW, EncyclopÃ¦dia Britannica] and was nominated as
one of the 100 Best TV shows in history. footnote:[All-TIME 100 TV
Shows, TIME] Actually, _Twin Peaks_ is in every top TV shows listings,
which indicates what a massive success it was. If it a TV show got all
this attention from the mainstream media, is it still "cult"? Yes, it
is. _Twin Peaks_ has one of the biggest cult followings of any TV show.
No other fan base of a TV show lasted for more than 25 years and still
trying to unravel mysteries and secrets that directors put into the
series.

*_Active celebration, community, liveness, and commitment._* The
followers of _Twin Peaks_ fan base and cult is massive to say the least.
We have COOP, a national _Twin Peaks_ fan organization With the new era
of the Internet, loyal fans from all around the world came together and
formed communities like: Twin Peaks Wikia, biggest website that is
solely dedicated to the series. It has transcripts for all episodes,
separate web pages for characters, events, places, and theories about
the show. The website is purely community-driven, meaning that fans
gather together and produce new material for the show just because of
their devotion to it. footnote:[Twin Peaks Wiki | FANDOM powered by
Wikia] _Twin Peaks_ also has a separate page on Reddit, most influential
discussion board service. With over 76 thousand footnote:[r/twinpeaks,
Reddit] readers, the community makes hundreds pages long discussions
about new episodes, new theories, and new revelations. This community
does not seem to wish stopping. Every day, new questions are being asked
and more answers are needed.

== The cultural status of Twin Peaks

Sometimes, cults films can be regarded as "strange" and even "weird" due
to their use of unusual and often inappropriate techniques. Casual or
uneducated audience may jsut disregard it as a flick or a trick used by
directors, however, some cases and _Twin Peaks_ especially, carry a very
important task of critically analyzing and criticizing current cultural
status, society structure, or topics that people usually do not openly
discuss.

*_Strangeness and Allegory._* One of the factors may be the location of
_Twin Peaks_ as a city. Filmed in a beautiful state of Washington near a
waterfall surrounded by famous douglas firs. Not every film features
such relaxing yet mysterious locations as David Lynch's and Mark Frost's
creation does. This is one of the important but subtle signs of
something odd and out of place. BOB, The Arm, Little Man, Red Room, and
etc. are the truly strange parts of the show that granted its cult
status.

*_Cultural sensitives and politics._* The status of a film as a cultural
representation is related to its cult reputation. The reputation of a
cult film increases as its cult fandom grows, its cult status is
becoming more culturally acceptable, and the meanings are becoming more
and more ambigiuos. Truly, the creators of _Twin Peaks_, David Lynch and
Mark Frost introduced to the world a TV show about a dead high school
beauty queen wrapped in a plastic on the beach, special FBI Agent
investigating the case while drinking the finest coffee with the best
cherry pie you could buy in a small town in the state of Washington that
is visited by out-of-the-world demonic creatures whose sole purpose is
to corrupt the residents of our fine small town. To the surprise of all
audiences members and even the cast, _Twin Peaks_ not only became a part
of history, it changed and it completely and permanently. footnote:[This
was once revealed to me in a dream]
TOMB
