#+setupfile: ../_film.org
#+date: 9; 12025 H.E. 2250
* Farewell My Concubine
Mesmerizing, breathtaking, and ruthless in slicing your heart into the tiniest
of pieces. What would the changing political and cultural landscape do to the
bond between two brothers---stressed to its limit with jealousy and betrayal?
/Farewell My Concubine/ is a testament to the ideals that every film, director,
writer should strive to reach for, or, at the very least, be intimately aware
of. Similar to what I think of /In the Mood for Love/, this is a perfect film,
where you cannot add nor subtract anything, otherwise, it would not be itself.

I don't know where to start. Words had a difficult time forming in my head,
where I could put them in writing here later. Leslie Cheung is one of a
kind. Nobody else could do this role. As he not only played Dieyi, but he played
Dieyi playing Lady Yu, the concubine, with such faith and tenderness, I have
truly forgotten I was watching a film, an actor at work altogether. Wow. Not
often something affects me to such an extent, where I would shed a tear or have
goosebumps springing up all over my back.

To present the truth, I am not much familiar with Beijing opera, nor with
classical Chinese opera either, so seeing the decorations, the setup, costumes,
singing, acting, and luxuriously heavy makeup in the beginning of the film had
alienated me just a bit with how extravagant and exotic it felt. It was more of
a puzzled excitement that developed later into a playful curiosity and findings
its branches growing into the realm of sincere adoration. As the characters,
politics, and culture of China changed, so have I through the three hour long
runtime of /Farewell My Concubine/.

#+begin_gallery
- [[opera.jpg][Art, discipline, and skill that transcend the worldly minutia.]] :flex 95 :no-zoom
#+end_gallery

The training that Shitou and Douzi had to go through was absolutely brutal, but
ultimately, unsurprising for the times, place, and discipline. It is the
expectation that honoring traditions comes above all else, at the expense of
one's self-expression, individuality, or life. Not to say I agree with it, but I
do understand. My younger sister went through more of a decade of classical
Piano training, where the teacher who had learned the art through similar ways
in her youth, has bestowed---albeit, modernized and softer ways---similar
methodologies during my sister's lessons.

I would be lying if I said there wasn't something to it. There really is,
otherwise, history wouldn't have played out this way. To reach such pinnacle and
perfection of art, one must endure a great sacrifice endured through a series of
personal tragedies. It's not written anywhere, but nobody can escape the reality
of it either. Similar how the greatest artists of the past, think of Renaissance
era, breathed and lived through the lens of their discipline, art, from a young
age---as this was the rule when masters of the time would take them away from
their parents and families, such that the training can start as soon as
possible.

#+begin_gallery
- [[dieyi.jpg][Incredible. Lustrious. Can't take my eyes off of you.]] :flex 95 :no-zoom
#+end_gallery

Leslie Cheung, again, otherwordly, similar ethereal presence and quality of
Maggie Cheung, expressed this way of living through art like none other. As the
times change, the audiences change, Dieyi continues living in opera, which for
him, is no different than every day life, in sharp contrast to Xiaolou, who
built a great wall between opera and everything else. We see how their
relationship evolves and devolves even more, as they get taken advantage of,
harassed, assaulted, raped, ridiculed, and prosecuted. When the Cultural
Revolution came, not much has changed, really, the violence was still present,
the Red Guard did not hold everyone as right and equal, as Juxian's past as a
prostitute drove her story to a crisis, as the only way to deal with
counterrevolutionaries is to hang and execute them, as prosecutions and
interrogations continued and intensified---nothing and everything was changing
at the same time.

#+begin_gallery
- [[triangle.jpg][Jealousy and betrayal]] :flex 95 :no-zoom
#+end_gallery

While everybody got swept up in the great tides of the revolution, art, the
ideals and essence of Beijing opera was the only constant, ever so faint that
could ground Dieyi and Xiaolou. Their movements, songs, costumes, makeup, the
opera /Farewell My Concubine/---fundamentally, it has not changed, as the very
core of it is forever eternal. Only through their last performance, do we see
Dieyi owning his role in the great act to the very end, we see him pushing art
to the limits, where only action is powerful enough to convey the meaning.

{{{five}}}
