= Banished from the Hero's Party ðŸª´
Sagindyk Urazayev <ctu ku edu>
About_LINK | Bookshelf_LINK | Fortunes_LINK | Home_LINK
:toc: left
:toc-title: Table of Adventures â›µ
:nofooter:
:experimental:

4; 12022 H.E.

Hello! Hope you're doing well today. This is my very first anime review,
I don't know the best format to follow. I think I'm the only person who
will read this, so I'll write it for myself. If you're not me, Godspeed.
Shall we?

First thing to get out of the way is the title of this show. The full
title is _Banished from the Hero's Party, I Decided to Live a Quiet Life
in the Countryside_, which is rather long. For the sake of not writing
it all out, I'll refer to the show simply by _Banished_.

I knew nothing of the show, found it randomly somewhere on MyAnimeList.
I didn't even know what isekai meant and what the whole genre entails. I
walked into the show with a very open mindset about a day or two before
New Year's Eve. Let me tell you something from the beginning, I
absolutely *loved* this show.

I guess I do have a weak spot for slice of life style of shows.
Something more slow in plot progression, fewer amazing battles or heroic
encounters, but more of a introspective into our daily routine that life
is made out of. It is extremely calming and simplyâ€¦ welcoming! I would
even dare to say wholesome.

Reading some reviews that people left, they criticize people for liking
this genre for being too "naÃ¯ve" and "simple-minded" to enjoy this
isekai genre. In many ways, I can see their argument. It's no Death Note
or Neon Genesis Evangelion or any other
on-the-surface-deep-thought-provoking plot with endless schemes and
betrayals. Does it need to be that?

This is worth its own "opinion" post, but modern audiences are spoiled
with the thought of feeling themselves to be smart and deep by watching
dark/tragic shows, as in thinking the depth of meaning is equivalent to
its respective "darkness". First example that comes to mind is Joker.
What a horrible movie.

This fallacy leads people onto the path of pseudo-intelligence and
trivialization of important questions and topics down to bad-taste jokes
and taking things too far. This needless exercise in tragedy is what
prevents people from enjoying even simple shows for what they are trying
to be. It literally sucks the fun out of anything if you are a cynical
person.

Coming from that drifted-over discussion back to _Banished_. There is no
secret to enjoy what it has to offer. Take it in for what it's supposed
to be. It can be even very cheesy in some spots and that's what we're
here for. To enjoy the little magic that _Banished_ holds close it its
heart. I felt really good after watching the show, which is a very good
sign. Atmosphere is not the only thing it has to offer, there is a big
question that was being pondered, let's talk!

_Banished_ looks at the old question of "What is life?" and "What does
it mean to be successful in life?" As Gideon was in the Hero's Party
with Ruti, battling hordes of demons, onto bringing the fight to the
Demon Lord. Sounds pretty exciting, doesn't? It sounds very heroic and
noble. What if he were instead to open an apothecary in a small village
and just live a simple life?

Many would find the second route to be less exciting, less
protagonistic, less heroic. Are they right? In their own right, they
are. However, what is life but a series of events that can be looked at
and understood from an infinite number of different angles and
worldviews? What is a failure for one is a fulfilled and a happy life
for another. Then you might ask me, "Sandy, where is the truth then?"

I will say that is a good question. How do we live the perfect life?
What is a perfect life? Again, is life about your career? Maybe stature?
Your role in the society? Love? Fulfilling your path/destiny? MONEY? It
is indeed a great question. All I can give now in this short anime
review is that it is life. What you do, how you live, just live. Instead
of overthinking every step we take, let us live and put the dot right
there.

This is quite a departure from any good review. We'll keep on going.
Let's talk about the characters and the show more specifically then!
Mostly, about Gideon, Rit, and Ruti.

Gideon had an amazing caliber of humbleness and empathy towards around
him, which makes a notable difference for the best in your immediate
surroundings. He had the skill that very few people in the world are
fortune to possess and that's to know who you are and be friends with
yourself. Be content with life's givings and takings, by simply moving
further. What's done is done, let's think what we do next!

We tend to expect a lot from everything we do, it can range from
financial gains to love to anything else. It's only in human nature to
expect some sort of an equal return for our troubles and efforts. I like
to entertain the possibility, a realm where we try to approach life more
philosophically. Instead of expecting, we just do what we do in the
moment and have what comes at us. I feel it takes an incredible
discipline to be this much at peace with yourself.

Rit was in a similar situation to Gideon (Red), as the miraculously met
once again after departing in their previous adventures together. She
also does have expectations from her royal family, subordinates, and her
people. Are we then just prisoners of our destinies? By God giving
everyone a path in life and a destiny with no way out, why are we given
free will for?

Maybe we are given some path, some pre-determined set of events,
emotions, feelings, people, places, etc. that we are meant to experience
and live through in the time we have in this world. Free will is given
to make it more fun. One will still follow the general "flow" of their
destiny, but the way they can approach it entirely depends on them.

This is something I liked the way the approach Ruti's character. The
literal Hero of the land. Destined and Blessed by The Almighty to serve
as a protector and fighter, devoid of anything that can impede such a
crucial mission. Should one follow and fulfill their path or try to
pursue their own life if they feel it goes against what they're required
to do?

It is only my own feeling that we have to live our own lives the way we
would want to live it, of course within the degree of freedom of your
current situation. Life might be too short to care too much and spend
too much time on something that goes against your will. _Banished_
teaches you living *your* life and no one else's.

Also, the opening song never fails to brighten up the mood for me

SPOTIFY 4IuiAmZd248MLAntebZFKo
TOMB
