* My graduation speech ðŸ•Š

192; 12022 H.E.

Welcome faculty, students, and guests. Please be seated.

My name is Sandy Urazayev, and I am graduating today with my Bachelorâ€™s degree
in Computer Science. Standing here, I realize what people meant my freshman year
by ``Jayhawks flying out of the Nest.'' It all seemed so distant and
abstract. Almost unthinkable.

And today, that is us. We are the Jayhawks, nurtured and cared for by our nest,
consisting of our peers, professors, teaching assistants, tutors, friends, and
family. Is it already time for us to go?

For the whole of last semester, Iâ€™ve been thinking to myself about how far weâ€™ve
come. Just this morning, I looked at the familiar faces around. I saw plenty of
happiness, joy, and pride. Yet I also noticed subtle tones of fear and
uncertainty. The uncertainty that I can relate so closely to. Of what is to
come? What is life like after college? Because for so long university life feels
as if it is everything weâ€™ve known.

After a long time of thought, I found peace. I donâ€™t know what exactly we will
be doing 10 years or one year from now, not even what we will be doing
tomorrow.

I do know one thing. No matter where we go or where life takes us, one thing is
for sure. Us listening to our hearts, following our dreams, and staying true to
ourselves, we will be living the lives we have yearned for so long. It is in
itself already worth everything we have worked so hard toward.

I want all of you to believe and know that you deserve everything you aspire to
be and wish to do. By wearing that cap and regalia, you have already shown the
resolve and determination of your spirit.

Never forget about the compassion of your friends and the support of your
families that got you here. It is our turn to welcome the new generation and
pass the torch of the youth. It is time for a new chapter. A new life.

Today marks the day we have to spread our wings -- full of courage and hope --
and march into the future that awaits.

Let me ask you, are you ready to live?

[[gradspeech.webp][Ceremony brochure and the podium]]
