* On Tarkovskian Solaris ü™ê

102; 12022 H.E.

What if a planet could think? What if a planet could act as a single entity?
Feel and make decisions as a whole. Not a modern hivemind kind of a way, nor an
artificial structure. An ocean enveloping a celestial body is a big brain, which
wants to make contact with beings so much inferior and less complex - humans. It
would even seem hard to misrepresent such a fascinating concept, yet Andrei
Tarkovsky, a Soviet film director found a way to do just that.  

[[kris.webp][Kris Kelvin]]

The synopsis of Stanislaw Lem's magnum opus - /Solaris/ can be described as a
story of how miserably small and inadequate humanity can appear when it comes
one to one versus a civilization or a mind such grand, at such an unfathomable
distance away in terms of intellect and abilities. Solaris, which is the
planet's name has been a riddle to humanity for many decades, unfortunately, to
no avail. It appears humanity has no way of understanding something, which is
simply not human.  

Psychologist Kris Kelvin is being sent on an interstellar journey, to conclude
whether the decades-old expedition sent to Solaris' orbit should continue its
study or simply halt all operations. Unexpectedly, it is revealed to the
audience that the planet has more secrets than our heroes can chew. The last
three real inhabitants of the station get visits from their materialized pasts,
haunting them, bringing out the loneliness and baggage each has.  

[[station.webp][Solaris station]]

With such an incredible story, I shall stress again that Tarkovsky managed to
make the pacing of the movie so painfully slow and dragged out that even I, a
big fan of Lem's works and Solaris novel in particular, barely survived through
the screening of the 1972 adaptation. I was lucky enough to bring a pillow
because of knowing how long it is. It was my sincere attempt to enjoy the work,
however, it appeared to me that instead of following Lem's love for Solaris, or
at least adapting it to stay faithful to the very core of it, Tarkovsky went out
of his way to interject every possible moment with his own opinions on what is
right and what is wrong.  

Let's talk about what the film excelled at, such that it would be simpler for us
to follow the thread of where it went wrong. For its time, /Solaris/ is very well
shot. Especially, the part about representing a futuristic city, we watched a
couple of minutes long cut of dashcam footage on the highway roads of Akasaka,
Tokyo. Stylistic choices in aesthetic visuals were very well done, ranging from
how the ocean water was represented, down to the electronics and an
advanced-looking space station interior. Unfortunately, when I think of the
moments from the film, the above is all I could think of what I enjoyed during
my watch.

[[ocean.webp][Ocean visuals]]

It is time to get to the crux of the matter. The biggest sin of /Solaris/ is its
forced interpretation of its source, which borders closely to outright
propaganda of one's very specific views, where that specific someone is
Tarkovsky with his high ideas of focusing plot on a man, his sins, and his
subsequent retribution. It is no wonder that the last thing Stanislaw Lem
recalled telling Tarkovsky after spending some time in Moscow assisting with the
script was,  

#+begin_quote
``Tarkovsky and I had a healthy argument. I sat in Moscow for six weeks while we
argued about how to make the movie, then I called him a `durak' [`idiot' in
Russian] and went home...'' -- Stanislaw Lem
#+end_quote 

Lem's story is evenly divided into a balance of three main arcs: Drama,
Science-fiction, and Solaristics. The third drama revolves around the story of
Kelvin and Harey. Science-fiction part focuses of course on the observations
made by scientists regarding the planet. The last third is deeply woven into the
story, where we are thrown into bits and pieces of the story of Solaristics, the
study of Solaris. The documentary-like flashbacks give us more insights into the
relationship between humans and Solaris. Tarkovsky decided to completely ignore
the value of a gradual reveal of the planet's history by compressing it all into
a single 40-minute segment at the beginning of the film.  

This changed the pacing completely, thus, giving out too much information to
viewers regarding what is to come in the story. /Solaris/ is presented as
something scary, untamed, and inhuman. Scientists working on understanding the
planet are a bunch of fanatics, who have devoted their lives to the
field. Kelvin is supposed to be some special ``inspector'', which will evaluate
the need for Solaristics. What happens after can be described as nothing more
than ``Crime and Punishment'' in space, where a man deals with his past, ethics,
and moral imperatives. There would have been some hope for Tarkovsky's
commentary on human conscience, only if it were even remotely close to the
mastery of understanding such concepts as Dostoevsky does.  

[[harey.webp][Harey]]

Large portions of what made Lem's Solaris a timeless masterpiece were ignored
(like the science-fiction part) as Tarkovsky was completely uninterested in
`Solaristics' and the sentient ocean. Without a doubt, stylistic and structural
canons differ between films and novels, however, they should still tell a story
that can live up to its source, especially if it is as strong and influential as
ours is. Stanislaw Lem wants to tell a story without giving straight answers,
layering it with a fog of mystery. We ask ourselves, what would a contact
between earthlings and an extraterrestrial being beyond their comprehension be
like? While also using an incredible depth in both imagination and philosophy to
tell it.   

I am a humanist myself. I love when authors and directors go deeper into the
psyche of a human, the emotions, feelings, worries, and pain. This is why
Dostoevsky is my favorite writer. While Tarkovsky's version follows a man and
his late ex-wife coming back to life from his dreams to haunt him on the station
produces arguments and raises discussions, which seem to be entirely too
sentimental, lacking competence to properly ponder and execute themes, such as
sin and retribution, while also lacking the courage to go beyond those classical
concepts and attempt a more unique discussion. This is presented ever so vividly
in the inclusion of Kelvin's parents.  

#+begin_quote
``And what was absolutely terrible was that Tarkovsky introduced Kelvin‚Äôs parents
and even some aunt into the movie. But most of all, his mother. [...] The mother
is Russia, the Motherland, Earth. That just enraged me.`` -- Stanislaw Lem
#+end_quote

Those extra characters are simply not needed and the only part in which they
succeed is confusing the viewer about the importance of their part in the
film. This is Tarkovsky attempting to show the importance of family, of internal
struggles of a man, and one's fight against themselves. It would be great if
this attempt were executed more properly, rather than showing minutes worth of
stills and uninterrupted footage of what appears to be aimed at putting me to
sleep or impressing inexperienced viewers with the ``aesthetic'' method of
watching films.   

[[home.webp][Kris ``back'' home]]

I must admit, there were parts in dialogues between characters, which I found to
be masterfully written, such as ``Only an unhappy person will ponder about the
meaning of life and happiness. A happy person has no time nor needs for those
cursed questions.'' I couldn‚Äôt decide whether /Solaris/ is a masterpiece or a
mirage of one in those specific moments. The ending of the movie and how it was
presented answered that question for me.  

Tarkovsky is the kind of a director who wants everything to be ``in his own
way''. It is not necessarily a bad thing, but when it comes at a cost of
becoming blind to the importance of Lem's cognitive and epistemological
considerations to what Solaris and solaristics stand as a whole, it results in
what we have today calling itself /Solaris/, yet having no real connection, other
than the shared name and setting. It is nothing more than a hollow vassal
drifting through space, simply lost in its emotional sauce with no purpose,
completely amputated from the scientific landscape, which made the source a
timeless classic, and instead, opting in to fill it with weirdness, which isn't
even of the quirky and fun kind. Just weird.
