#+date: 116; 12023 H.E.
* Makoto Shinkai ☔️

I think one of the principles of Makoto Shinkai's films, which I do not
regularly find in other ``anime'' movies or general media, is his sense of
expressing the state of waiting and longing. Of course, his romantic plots can
get cringy, hopeless, etc., but in my mind, those plots are always secondary.

Alfred Hitchcock used to say, "Cinema is life with the dull bits cut out"—since
almost every director ever took it to heart and loaded their movies with
constant drama, plot points, etc., to such an extent, "too slow of a pace" is a
common complaint made by a wide range of audiences to some movies.

[[weathering.webp][/Weathering with You/]]

#+drop_cap
That is, of course, understandable because any media is a form of
escapism. However, films doubled down on it so much so—they completely removed
the feeling of what it means to just /live/. Life doesn't happen in three acts,
five chapters, or sequels. Even if some things constantly occur, much of it is
spent waiting in the grand scheme of things.

Waiting for that promotion at work, waiting before you see your family, waiting
for a vacation, or something exciting and spicy if that rocks your boat. Nothing
much /actually/ happens throughout those moments in life, which in itself is a
beauty that gets ignored in movies and daily life.

[[yourname.webp][/Your Name/]]

But should it be? If it's dull—is it necessary to be avoided or ignored? I would
like to disagree and find Makoto Shinkai finding something of a similar
thought. Like in Your Name, the big picture was more of noticing the beauty and
enjoyment in small everyday things, like taking a subway ride, walking around
the city, or hanging out with friends—being somewhat more attuned to temporal
moments that we slowly got atrophied to.

And, of course, it's hard—because it's hard to keep a sense of novelty with
things when they are... well—not new anymore. This sense of waiting for
something to happen shouldn't be shunned but enjoyed in itself. Something along
the words of "those who wonder discover that this in itself is a wonder."

Maybe tangential to slice of life, but those are ridiculed with "that bus
station arc went hard"—it's more of intertwining small with the significant,
important with the unimportant, niche with the grandiose. This is the feeling I
get from /Your Name/, /Weathering With You/, and his other works.

[[suzume.webp][/Suzume/]]

#+drop_cap
Just a final note about Suzume—I would consider it his finest piece. However, it
is crazy to me that people see it as a romantic movie. Sure, there was a piece
of that, but it is far from what is actually explored in it. This is a story of
trauma, loss, and remembrance of the 3/11 tragedy, where children were orphaned,
and in many cases—they are only young adults at most, probably still kids.

I don't know—I felt super sad at the depopulation of the countryside, smaller
towns, and the sealed memories and emotions of such places. If they are
abandoned quickly and violently, what happens to people that once used to call
it home and the *life* that happened there? Suzume explores it as an internal
meditation and acceptance of those tragic events and their consequences.
