![preview](./preview.png)
About ðŸ¤”
=======

My name is Sagindyk, everybody just calls me Sandy. Currently, I am a
Computer Science undergraduate student at [University of
Kansas](https://ku.edu) I am a huge fan of `*UNIX*` philosophy and
`Linux` tools in general. Wield the power of the terminal with `awk`,
`sed`, and `grep`! I have interests in cyber-security, DevOps, Software
Development, System Automation, Data Science, and Typesetting tools. I
am the current active CTO at [KU Information Security
Club](https://kuisc.com). I am also the co-founder of [KU Emacs
Club](https://kuemacs.github.io/)!

I am the creator and founder of [Meme Investor
Bot](https://reddit.com/u/MemeInvestor_bot) - the biggest interactive
reddit bot on the platform that allows users from all over to world to
invest in memes and collaborate together around their favorite content!
Almost a year after the initial launch, more than 20 developers and
ethusiasts worked together towards making a better platform for
collaborative content creation and promotion. We have more than 100
thousand registered users on our system. We have our
[website](https://meme.market) where we keep all the statistics updated
and available with the current trends, popular content, and meme
markets! I am the main maintainer of the project. Feel free to check out
our [github page](https://github.com/thecsw/memeinvestor_bot) and commit
new changes!

I am also the creator of other various projects and bots, such as
[u/PrequelMemes~bot~](https://reddit.com/u/prequelmemes_bot),
[u/HiveWriting~bot~](https://reddit.com/u/HiveWriting_bot),
[u/MemePolice~bot~](https://reddit.com/u/MemePolice_bot), and so much
more! For a more detailed list of my open projects, check [my github
page](https://github.com/thecsw)!
