* Horimiya üç∞

79; 12022 H.E.

Horimiya is one of the most realistic depictions of the first love I have ever
watched. It captured the beauty, awkwardness, embarrassment, and vivid colors of
what it means to fall in love for the first time. I would even dare to say the
privilege of almost feeling like being a part of it. It‚Äôs good to be young.

#+drop_cap
This will be a short review, as most of what I have to say is encapsulated
above. It is usually a rare feat for films and media set in high school settings
to portray real emotions and feelings. Most are slapstick comedies (think of any
Disney/CN/Nick show), super cringey (anything coming out now), and way over the
top on the life part.

[[miyamura.webp][Miyamura]]

I love Dostoyevsky; many would claim that he goes over the top; however, his
stories are more nuanced, as he explores every soul as if it were a whole
Universe. However, I must note that this ‚Äúover the top‚Äù simply talks about a
story that lacks genuine emotions, which makes them desperate to over-compensate
that with writing that has no restraints. It reads dull and disconnected from
reality. We will have another time for him.

#+drop_cap
Horimiya was nothing like it. The relationship built between Hori and Miyamura
felt natural and genuine. How first love blooms, develops, and how it must go
through thick and thin to last have meaning that goes beyond the initial
inexperience of lovers, so it can grow into stability and mutual
understanding. What does it mean to give colors of life to your loved one? To be
close to someone.

[[hori.webp][Hori-san]]

Every human is their whole Universe, which is yet to be found and loved by their
special someone. They explored different relationships, lives, and people around
them, like their classmates and friends (or yet-to-be friends). The successes in
love, failures, misunderstandings, and selfishness were a part of the story,
which made it so much more relatable.

[[smile.webp][I went to bed with a smile on my face]]
