#+options: preview:rebecca.png
* Rebecca SUPREMACY üç¨

147; 12023 H.E.

Yoinked and twisted directly from a wall of text I sent to my friends in our
discord server. Totally unsolicited and no one asked for it. My take on Rebecca
and Lucy from Cyberpunk Edgerunners.

-----

I've been thinking of what I mentioned about Lucy. I realized why I /probably/
wouldn't want to be with someone like her.

But yeah. I dated girls like Lucy and in emotional connections/relationships as
well. The biggest drawback is that they are very hard to read, and the most
challenging part is that they usually never voice out their feelings or how they
see the relationship going. So many little things that get under your/their skin
build up over time.

You might be doing something purely out of your heart. But
it might be driving your partner crazy and making them build those annoyances
up. However, the most tragic thing in all of this is that you don't know that.
And whenever they *do* bring it up in the relationship, things have deteriorated
far enough past the breaking point. So it's not a preventative measure of
understanding what ticks either person, but a significant full-blown incident or
a scandal with thousands of layers of resentment. 

Whenever a relationship gets to that breaking-point state, the chances of it
staying healthy long-term are practically nil. Because it got to that stage,
even if you talk it through (when it got too big). Little seeds of resentment
and everything might still be left over. That will grow into a massive tree that
might not be able to be cut down later down the road. Those relationships,
proactive measures, and a habit of staying open in health and sickness don't
come after one big argument. Practicing daily takes years and maybe even a
life's worth of diligent and grueling work.

So before the people in the example learn how to keep it healthy and open,
another significant conflict and negativity might have exploded. And this time,
it blew up the connection and the relationship entirely. It's usually because
people aren't used to discussing relationships to their core. This happens in
any normal relationship whenever someone expresses their feelings to you (both
good and bad; think of a ``let's sit down and talk''). ``I felt hurt when you
said/did X,'' we're used to it as a big red flag that things have gotten really
bad and immediately tense up.

This can involve a lot of scar tissue from millions of other tiny things already
being built up. So having that vulnerability and openness about expressing your
feelings, ``But don't worry, it's not a sign of anything bad; things are fine,
but I want to share my feelings with you to prevent any resentment or annoyance
from building up,'' it takes a lot of work.
Of course, it is a nuanced topic; you shouldn't also express your every single
little frustration in hopes of ``I can fix him'' or ``I can fix her''. 
It's more of a proactive work on constantly being able to come to a compromise
about each other's feelings. 

This is all my and only my isolated perspective on Lucy, without a goal of
Influencing anyone for or against Lucy.

But yeah, to close up and make a nice bow tie. Lucy is great, but she has been
in relationships with many ``archetypes'' of her. The difficulty of reading a
person, and even if I try to stay proactive in expressing feelings, but making
it very clear that ``it is not because things are bad or anything, completely
the opposite, actually'' can make people tense up or get them freaked out by it
(completely understandable, though; we as a society aren't taught or told that
it's okay to say how you feel *no matter what the situation or state of affairs
is*).

I like Rebecca because she wears her feelings a bit more on her sleeve, and she
can show you where she stands on topics/issues sooner rather than later (and she
*will* let you know). Whereas Lucy-kind will tell you when it's too late to fix
anything (even if you tried your best). For example, when Rebecca's brother was
killed, Rebecca disappeared for several episodes. I remember that, and when she
came back, she was back upbeat and to her ``usual'' self. It showed how deep it
shook her, but she knew how to get out of the funk. While also giving herself
enough time and space to grieve and live through emotions.

To me, that showed *fantastic* emotional balance and maturity of Rebecca. Things
aren't going to be easy with her for sure, though. However, she's a force to be
reckoned with in and out by staying in sync. Which Rebecca would welcome and
work towards both of you to do. The chances of building a healthy long-term
relationship with her are much higher. And she's *hella fun*. 

Rebecca truly loved David, yet instead of holding it in or having a sense of
animosity. She had that big bestie vibe, even if she and David weren't
together. That doesn't stop them from being edge runners together. Again, this
shows loyalty and *the excellent* way Rebecca deals with emotions. 

Lots to learn from her. That is why Rebecca is my religion.

[[rebecca.png][my religion]]

So basically yeah, I say no to Lucy (sold out David in the beginning) and full
Yes to Rebecca (never betrayed, OG member since the beginning)
