#+options: exclude-html-head:property="theme-color"
#+html_head: <meta name="theme-color" property="theme-color" content="#ffffff">
#+html_head: <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../drama.css">
#+options: preview-generate:t rss-prefix:(Film)
#+options: preview-generate-bg:#ffffff preview-generate-fg:#000000
#+date: 333; 12024 H.E. 2040
* The Ice Storm

#+begin_export html
<img class="image movie-poster" src="poster.webp">
#+end_export

Bleak America—exactly how it is. All these people may live in the same house,
share a last name, and spend the night in more or less within each other's
vicinities, but that is really about it. If you are looking for anything deeper
than a surface-level pat—you won't find it here, not in this film, nor in the
real thing. Strangers living together, ever more growing emotionally distant
from each other to the point, where they don't know the first thing about each
other. What is worse, they don't even know the first thing about
themselves. Ever so poignant and relevant to this day, Ang Lee provides this by
all means, as they said in their director's commentary, "a total market flop,"
but a brutally honest view of how cold it has become within American families. I
don't even know if "family" is the right term here. Suburbia? Nasty word, but it
works very well in this context.

K.K. selected this movie during Criterion's flash sale. I had never heard of it
before, but the short description at the back of the disc box intrigued us, so
we saved it for viewing until later. We could not have chosen a better time to
watch "The Ice Storm" than on Thanksgiving night. Speaking of Thanksgiving, to
me, who has had the immense opportunity to grow up all around the world and
experience different ways of living, the very idea of the holiday always seemed
somewhat odd. Should you not be thankful for what you have every day? I do not
mean merely material possessions, though these play an important part in one's
life, they are (hopefully) far from the core requirements of being human. In the
film, the "thank you" speech involves specifically material possessions and
well-being, rather than focusing on the more intangible things, not something
you can put a dollar value on, but fulfilling in ways like nothing else. And of
course, for the very root of Thanksgiving, how can one cherish a holiday so
deeply when it is soaked and marinated in the blood, tears, and suffering of
Native Americans who came before?

I will say it again—bleak. Initially, I couldn't find the word to describe the
whole mood of the setting. "Sadness" was the first that came to mind, but you
see, to be sad requires some level of introspection and feeling of something
amiss, such that the sad emotions have a way of triggering and being let out. In
the American story, there is no such conspiracy, there is nobody "behind it
all." It is exactly what people want, what they made their country and nation to
march towards, and precisely what they got. Ultimately, there isn't some "big
bad guy" to punch or someone or something to fight and prevail. It's rotten to
the foundation that everything is built on. However, in this case, imagine it
not really becoming brittle and collapsing the whole structure—but more of
becoming super soggy, slimy, icky, like a rotten fruit, where the rot travels
upwards and infects everything on its way, only then starting to sag slowly,
such that every inch that the structure falls down takes time and merely
unnoticeable, until it's all gone and done.

This is how I see the picture. The true "American Tragedy," which I cannot say
the nation may ever survive. Well, the notion of a "nation" is too strong of a
word in this context; when you alienate yourself from your neighbors, friends,
spouse, kids, and yourself—what have you truly got? None. The talks of having
even a resemblance of a nation cannot be started if all of those critical
components are missing. It sounds rather dystopian but look around. One of the
biggest movie influences I had regarding the topic of American society was
"American Beauty." It focused so heavily and intimately on a single
dysfunctional family's disaster, only to zoom out in the very end to a
bird's-eye view of hundreds, no, thousands of houses in some suburbia, where the
same story repeats itself from one house to another, one generation to another,
and one "family" to another. Morally and ethically bankrupt society, where
almost everything it does and all of its attempts to salvage its sorry state are
truly revolting. Adoption of an ancient way to justify adultery is cheating and
covering it up as "swingers" is the same as regular, run-of-the-mill, dirty
adultery and cheating. Kids discovering sexuality at an age too young to really
do anything of substance, because that is their only way of easily recovering a
portion of emotional stability, which is lost in the jungles of American
suburbia. The list goes on.

Nothing really left to say here. Cinematography was superbly fitting the mood
and atmosphere, completely selling the dreary setup of it all. Only if their
situation were actively bad, something could have been done—but by being
actively engaged in a passive mediocrity—nothing is felt, nothing is found,
nothing is talked, and of course, nothing is fixed. Happy Thanksgiving!
