anime/index.adoc, before:

= Sandy's anime ✂️
Sagindyk Urazayev <ctu@ku.edu>
About_LINK | Bookshelf_LINK | Fortunes_LINK | Home_LINK
:toc: left
:toc-title: Table of Adventures ⛵
:nofooter:
:experimental:

I also enjoy watching some good anime, so here is my VHS-esque shelf
full of anime as a bonus! See some selected reviews at the bottom

....
 ┌──────────────────┐
 │     Takt Op.     │
 │     Destiny      ├───────────────────┐
 ├──────────────────┤ Sword Art Online: │
 │    Death Note    │ Progressive ─ Aria│
 ├──────────────────┤of a Starless Night│
 │   Is it Wrong    ├───────────────────┤
 │  to Try to Pick  │   Is it Wrong     │
 │   Up Girls in    │  to Try to Pick   │
 │  a Dungeon? III  │   Up Girls in     │
 ├──────────────────┤   a Dungeon? II   │
 │   Is It Wrong    ├───────────────────┤
 │  to Try to Pick  │ Sword Art Online  │
 │   Up Girls in    │  Movie: Ordinal   │
 │    a Dungeon?    │       Scale       │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │ Sword Art Online │  Rascal Does Not  │
 │   Alternative:   │  Dream of Bunny   │
 │  Gun Gale Online │    Girl Senpai    │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │  I Want to Eat   │ Heaven Official's │
 │  Your Pancreas   │     Blessing      │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │     Your Lie     │    Kakegurui ××   │
 │     in April     ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤     Kakegurui     │
 │  Demon Slayer –  ├───────────────────┤
 │    The Movie:    │   Demon Slayer    │
 │   Mugen Train    ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤ Sword Art Online  │
 │ Sword Art Online │   Alicization –   │
 │   Alicization    │ War of Underworld │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │    Sword Art     │     Sword Art     │
 │     Online       │     Online II     │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │    Banana Fish   │    Evangelion     │
 ├──────────────────┤     3.0+1.0       │
 │  The Cat Returns ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤   Mary and the    │
 │    When Marnie   │  Witch's Flower   │
 │     Was There    ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤      Kimi no      │
 │  Panty Stocking  │       Na Wa       │
 │ with Garterbelt  ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤     Dr. Stone     │
 │       FLCL       ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤    The Garden     │
 │      Ponyo       │     of Words      │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │   Space Patrol   │  A Silent Voice   │
 │      Luluco      ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤   Gurren Lagann   │
 │     Promare      ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤    Little Witch   │
 │  Spirited Away   │      Academia     │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │      Kiki's      │   Kyokou Suiri    │
 │ Delivery Service ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤  Evangelion 3.0   │
 │   My Neighbor    ├───────────────────┤
 │     Totoro       │  Evangelion 2.0   │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │     The End      │  Evangelion 1.0   │
 │   of Evangelion  ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤    Neon Genesis   │
 │ Brand New Animal │     Evangelion    │
 │      (BNA)       ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤   Darling in the  │
 │   Kill la Kill   │      FranXX       │
 ├──────────────────┴───────────────────┘
 │                                      │
/   ＼(^─^)／  ヾ｜￣ー￣｜ﾉ  ヽ(〃＾▽＾〃)ﾉ  \
....

Commit message:

Deploying to master from source @ 2fac228f2e397606fbe03a80947bcf2d8ce7fb03 🚀

anime/index.adoc, after:

= Sandy's anime ✂️
Sagindyk Urazayev <ctu@ku.edu>
About_LINK | Bookshelf_LINK | Fortunes_LINK | Home_LINK
:toc: left
:toc-title: Table of Adventures ⛵
:nofooter:
:experimental:

I also enjoy watching some good anime, so here is my VHS-esque shelf
full of anime as a bonus! See some selected reviews at the bottom

....
                    ┌───────────────────┐
                    │   Banished from   │
                    │ the Hero's Party, │
                    │   I Decided to    │
 ┌──────────────────┤ Live a Quiet Life │
 │     Takt Op.     │ in the Countryside│
 │     Destiny      ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤ Sword Art Online: │
 │    Death Note    │ Progressive ─ Aria│
 ├──────────────────┤of a Starless Night│
 │   Is it Wrong    ├───────────────────┤
 │  to Try to Pick  │   Is it Wrong     │
 │   Up Girls in    │  to Try to Pick   │
 │  a Dungeon? III  │   Up Girls in     │
 ├──────────────────┤   a Dungeon? II   │
 │   Is It Wrong    ├───────────────────┤
 │  to Try to Pick  │ Sword Art Online  │
 │   Up Girls in    │  Movie: Ordinal   │
 │    a Dungeon?    │       Scale       │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │ Sword Art Online │  Rascal Does Not  │
 │   Alternative:   │  Dream of Bunny   │
 │  Gun Gale Online │    Girl Senpai    │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │  I Want to Eat   │ Heaven Official's │
 │  Your Pancreas   │     Blessing      │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │     Your Lie     │    Kakegurui ××   │
 │     in April     ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤     Kakegurui     │
 │  Demon Slayer –  ├───────────────────┤
 │    The Movie:    │   Demon Slayer    │
 │   Mugen Train    ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤ Sword Art Online  │
 │ Sword Art Online │   Alicization –   │
 │   Alicization    │ War of Underworld │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │    Sword Art     │     Sword Art     │
 │     Online       │     Online II     │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │    Banana Fish   │    Evangelion     │
 ├──────────────────┤     3.0+1.0       │
 │  The Cat Returns ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤   Mary and the    │
 │    When Marnie   │  Witch's Flower   │
 │     Was There    ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤      Kimi no      │
 │  Panty Stocking  │       Na Wa       │
 │ with Garterbelt  ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤     Dr. Stone     │
 │       FLCL       ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤    The Garden     │
 │      Ponyo       │     of Words      │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │   Space Patrol   │  A Silent Voice   │
 │      Luluco      ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤   Gurren Lagann   │
 │     Promare      ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤    Little Witch   │
 │  Spirited Away   │      Academia     │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │      Kiki's      │   Kyokou Suiri    │
 │ Delivery Service ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤  Evangelion 3.0   │
 │   My Neighbor    ├───────────────────┤
 │     Totoro       │  Evangelion 2.0   │
 ├──────────────────┼───────────────────┤
 │     The End      │  Evangelion 1.0   │
 │   of Evangelion  ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤   One Punch Man   │
 │ One Punch Man 2  ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤    Neon Genesis   │
 │ Brand New Animal │     Evangelion    │
 │      (BNA)       ├───────────────────┤
 ├──────────────────┤   Darling in the  │
 │   Kill la Kill   │      FranXX       │
 ├──────────────────┴───────────────────┘
 │                                      │
/   ＼(^─^)／  ヾ｜￣ー￣｜ﾉ  ヽ(〃＾▽＾〃)ﾉ  \
....
