stuff/index.adoc, before:

= Cool stuff 🦎
Sagindyk Urazayev <ctu@ku.edu>
About_LINK | Bookshelf_LINK | Fortunes_LINK | Home_LINK
:nofooter:
:experimental:

== Compiler Written in C++ from Scratch 🍺

C-rona is a fantastic a general-purpose, procedural, imperative, and
statically-typed programming language written in C++. Our final project
contains a fully working compiler for x86_64 machines, which itself was
a semester-long project for EECS 665: Compiler Construction, where we
learned the art of building compilers from scratch and this is the
result.

EECS 665: Compiler Construction was taught by fantastic
https://ittc.ku.edu/~drew/[Drew Davidson], who made probably one of the
classicaly toughest courses in undergraduate career into one of the most
enjoyable classes I have ever taken in my Computer Science undergrad. I
must boast a little bit here and confess that this might objectively be
the best engineering course at my university and probably the best
compilers course work globally.

I worked on the project with https://github.com/zatkins-dev[Zachary
Atkins] and without him I wouldn't have gotten anywhere. We were great
partners throughout the whole semester.

-> https://github.com/thecsw/crona[Go to the compiler's source code]

== Sandy's Tutor Notes for Spring 2021 📝

During Spring 2021 semester, I worked as a tutor for the School of
Engineering. As one of the tutors, we held multiple a series of study
sessions every week, on subjects and classes ranging from Calculus
I/II/III to Phyics I/II and Chemistry I/II.

I took digital notes on my tablet during every meeting and they have
just been fully documented on a separate webpage. I taught Calculus II,
Calculus III, and Physics I. It was a lot of fun!

If you are a student and struggling with some of the courses above, you
can look at the notes as a bank of problems with detailed solutions. As
a tutor or a grader or a teaching assistant, you would be able to find a
good source of teaching material and the curriculum of those courses.

-> https://sandyuraz.com/tutor_sp21/[Go to the study session notes]

== Oracles for Ordinary Differential Equations 🧎‍♀️

I also worked as a grader for Ordinary Differential Equations course
(MATH 220), taught by Professor Van Vleck from the department of
Mathematics at University of Kansas. Interestingly enough, one of my
responsibilities was also typing up all the weekly homework solutions so
that they can be used as "oracles", i.e. "source of truth" when grading
students' submissions.

This was quite an experience, because it has been a while since my intro
ODE class. In a way, it felt like taking another courseload, as I had to
type everything in LaTeX. Solutions are available both in the web form
(rendered by https://www.mathjax.org[MathJax]) and in PDF form (rendered
with https://www.latex-project.org[LaTeX]). This might be a good source
to catch up on your ODEs!

-> https://sandyuraz.com/math220_sp21[Go to the ODE Oracles page]

== L'Hôpital's Rule 🏥

Before I became a tutor at the School of Engineering, as one of the
support materials I made for Calculus II was a quick web presentation on
L'Hôpital's Rule, its importance and the motivation behind it.

-> https://sandyuraz.com/present/lhopital[Go to the web presentation]

Commit message:

Deploying to master from source @ be4c738259d505170723aa69c9a408db61092da4 🚀

stuff/index.adoc, after:

= Cool stuff 🦎
Sagindyk Urazayev <ctu@ku.edu>
About_LINK | Bookshelf_LINK | Fortunes_LINK | Home_LINK
:nofooter:
:experimental:

== Compiler Written in C++ from Scratch 🍺

C-rona is a general-purpose, procedural, imperative, and
statically-typed programming language written in C++. Our final project
contains a fully working compiler for x86_64 machines, which itself was
a semester-long project for EECS 665: Compiler Construction, where we
learned the art of building compilers from scratch and this is the
result.

EECS 665: Compiler Construction was taught by the fantastic
https://ittc.ku.edu/~drew/[Drew Davidson], who made probably one of the
classicaly toughest courses in undergraduate career into one of the most
enjoyable classes I have ever taken in my Computer Science undergrad. I
must boast a little bit here and confess that this might objectively be
the best engineering course at my university and probably the best
compilers course work globally.

I worked on the project with https://github.com/zatkins-dev[Zachary
Atkins] and without him I wouldn't have gotten anywhere. We were great
partners throughout the whole semester.

-> https://github.com/thecsw/crona[Go to the compiler's source code]

== Sandy's Tutor Notes for Spring 2021 📝

During Spring 2021 semester, I worked as a tutor for the School of
Engineering. As one of the tutors, we held multiple a series of study
sessions every week, on subjects and classes ranging from Calculus
I/II/III to Phyics I/II and Chemistry I/II.

I took digital notes on my tablet during every meeting and they have
just been fully documented on a separate webpage. I taught Calculus II,
Calculus III, and Physics I. It was a lot of fun!

If you are a student and struggling with some of the courses above, you
can look at the notes as a bank of problems with detailed solutions. As
a tutor or a grader or a teaching assistant, you would be able to find a
good source of teaching material and the curriculum of those courses.

-> https://sandyuraz.com/tutor_sp21/[Go to the study session notes]

== Oracles for Ordinary Differential Equations 🧎‍♀️

I also worked as a grader for Ordinary Differential Equations course
(MATH 220), taught by Professor Van Vleck from the department of
Mathematics at University of Kansas. Interestingly enough, one of my
responsibilities was also typing up all the weekly homework solutions so
that they can be used as "oracles", i.e. "source of truth" when grading
students' submissions.

This was quite an experience, because it has been a while since my intro
ODE class. In a way, it felt like taking another courseload, as I had to
type everything in LaTeX. Solutions are available both in the web form
(rendered by https://www.mathjax.org[MathJax]) and in PDF form (rendered
with https://www.latex-project.org[LaTeX]). This might be a good source
to catch up on your ODEs!

-> https://sandyuraz.com/math220_sp21[Go to the ODE Oracles page]

== Selected Final Projects for Embedded Systems 🚗

In the Fall of 2020 I was enrolled in EECS 388: Embedded Systems. It's
an introduction course into lower level things, such as RISC-V, Computer
Architecture, CPU scheduling, and other fun stuff. The course itself was
accompanied by a lab section, where we wrote some C+Assembly to control
UART signals, some lights, etc.

The final project for the class was us building a self-driving car that
uses a pre-trained neural network for recognizing tracks on the ground
that it reads from its camera. The car itself uses Raspberry Pi as a
main board computer, HiFive micro-controller for the wheels connected
via UART to the Pi.

We built up extensions to the final project, I worked with KayLee
Mitchell on building a car that can be controlled from any
browser-capable device via a webpage and some quick interfaces hooked up
onto our little car. It was a fun farewell to this course. The link
below has a webpage written by me by the request of our Instructor to
document some selected final projects.

-> https://sandyuraz.com/eecs388_projects/[Go to the selected finals
webpage]

(above is the backup, original should be
https://eecs388.ku.edu/388Fa2020_selected_final[available here])

== L'Hôpital's Rule 🏥

Before I became a tutor at the School of Engineering, as one of the
support materials I made for Calculus II was a quick web presentation on
L'Hôpital's Rule, its importance and the motivation behind it.

-> https://sandyuraz.com/present/lhopital[Go to the web presentation]
