![preview](./preview.png)
Komi-san wa, Komyush≈ç Desu ü•ë
============================

48; 12022 H.E.

I had the pleasure to watch the anime adaptation of *Komi Can\'t
Communicate*. First of all, I have to say that I absolutely loved it.
It\'s on [Netflix](https://www.netflix.com/title/81228573), so go check
it out! This review will be succinct, you will see why.

Starting the show was a little rough for me. For whatever reason, the
first couple of episodes were something I just had to get myself
through, hoping that it hooks me better along the way. The beginning
feels a little boring, due to largely us not being well acquainted with
Tadano Hitohito and Komi Shouko. We\'re thrown into this wild high
school life, where everyone is almost a caricature of a specific persona
type.

And you know what? **I adore it.** There is a weak spot in me for the
Slice of Life kind of shows and feelings. One of my favorite parts of
Neon Genesis Evangelion is the one with the [alternate
reality](https://youtu.be/Vk2g-2tC5qM), which is just so (not)
wholesome. Komi definitely struck that beautiful note of having a
lightweight and simply endearing atmosphere.

Shouko has one single purpose and that is to make 100 friends. Hitohito
is her classmate that sincerely wants to help her. Interestingly, all
done without an inherited romantic ploy to get to her. I can go on
describing small moments I enjoyed, but that would border on retelling
the story, so it would be better for you to read the manga or watch the
show.

Finally, I need to say that my favorite character is Osana Najimi. She
has good energy, good vibes. Well, he? she? They prefer anything and
canonically, their gender is simply \"Najimi\". Thanks to her incredible
communication skills and pure talent, she is the complete polar opposite
of Komi. There is something about Najimi-chan whom I utmost admire.
It\'s the positive energy and sincerity with people that matter to
her/him.

Most importantly...

**I live for Osana Najimi.**

I am obsessed with good YT edits, so please enjoy some of them below.

<iframe width="100%" height="330px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Cy-LWx3-Mmw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="100%" height="330px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/x5YqmvwcFR8" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="100%" height="330px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0r9JuDz-OzE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="100%" height="330px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jIl6PHT6jww" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="100%" height="330px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Z1unSE8VEQc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="100%" height="330px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/BwGFrPspArA" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="100%" height="330px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CDuNr-nx76g" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="100%" height="330px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/e_rY2di38Is~" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="100%" height="330px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1Ev6vOgSCbI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="100%" height="330px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/QXwlge4a_s4~" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="100%" height="330px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OTEfMinT3hE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="100%" height="330px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ksNFqxv1iro" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

*Najimi Osana adapts to things.*
